---
id: glossary
title: Terms
sidebar_label: Terms
---

## Block Chain

**Block chain** was originally an ever-growing record, called _block_, which was linked and secured
using cryptographic techniques. Each block usually contains the cryptographic
[hash](https://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash) of the previous block, _timestamp_, and transaction data.
By design, blockchain is resistant to data modification.

## NFT

NFT or _Non Fungible Token_ is basically a digital token that is linked to a large _blockchain
system._ NFT is not much different from some crypto currency assets, the difference is that NFT
cannot be exchanged, but can be traded.

So far NFT is widely used to represent an item (mostly works of art) in digital forums. You could
say NFT is a certificate of ownership of an item.

Nowadays [NFT](https://www.detik.com/tag/nft) is used to buy and sell digital artwork. What is being
traded is NFT as a sign of ownership of a work of art

## Fungible Tokens

Or **FT**. It is similar to **NFT**. The difference is that **FT** can be traded with other **FT**.
An example of **FT** is BTC on Bitcoin and ETH on Ethereum.

## SPoF

The abbreviation for _Single Point of Failure_, is a system failure caused by the failure of one
component in the system, resulting in other components unable to work and stopping all system
functions.

## IoT

_Internet of things_ is a concept or program where an object has the ability to transmit or transmit
data over a network without using the help of computer and human devices. An example of IoT is an
automatic toll gate that can operate independently and is connected to operational and financial
services via the internet network.

## VPS

_Virtual Private Server_ Is a virtual computer server that runs on the parent server by sharing
resources on the parent server to be used in isolation by other services. This VPS is centralized.

## Cloud Server

Almost the same as VPS, the difference is that it usually has richer features. This cloud server is
still centralized.

## DoS

Denial of Service is an attack method carried out to disable a service on the network by flooding
the service with requests or garbage data continuously and massively so that the service is busy and
fails to process legitimate requests.

## Validators

Validators are nodes/computers that run creating blocks and validating each block created. The
validator works to secure the network and gets the benefit of _rewards_ for every block it creates,
these _rewards_ in the form of a native token called ARA.

## ARA

ARA is a native token or fuel unit code needed to support network sustainability. This ARA is used
to secure the system from DoS attacks and provide _rewards_ to validators who have secured the
network.

## Nominee

Nominees are individuals who participate as validators but not in the form of nodes/computers. The
nominees are in the form of stakes by lending ARA to certain validators so that the validator has a
greater chance of being selected as a block creator in each round. Nominees get _rewards_ according
to the staked value with the profit sharing percentage set by the validator.

## DApps

_Distributed Apps_ are applications that are built to run on a blockchain network.

## Smart Contract

_Smart Contract_ is an agreement between several parties written using computer code. Smart
contracts can transact independently as written in the contract without the need for a third party
to execute and validate it.

## Cryptography

Cryptography is a field which disscuss how to secure electronic transactions using mathematically
calculated passwords. Cryptography can be used to verify the correctness of the data, the
correctness of the sender of the data, and to scramble the data so that only the owner of the key
can read it.

## Tokens

A token is a unit used to restrict access to an existing resource. Examples of tokens are tokens
from electricity companies that restrict users from using more electricity than existing tokens and
tokens from banks that limit only those token holders who can make transactions.

## Consensus

Consensus is a collective agreement in the context of a block chain. An example of using consensus
is when a new block is created, all validators will validate it to determine whether the block is
valid or not. If the majority of validators say valid then the block will be written on the network.

## Web3

Web3 is a specification for the 3rd generation web. The 3rd generation web is a future web
generation designed with the aim that users can transact directly from one user to another without
the need for intermediaries (third parties) which usually exist in the application layer. In Web3
this direct interaction can be done at the protocol layer.

## PoW

_Proof of work_ is a mechanism in _blockchain_ that is used to secure the network from attacks. PoW
also serves as public proof that a person has done his or her job of securing and is therefore
worthy of _rewards_.

## Testnet

Is a network for testing, usually used by developers in building applications on the blockchain
network before deploying to the main network (Mainnet).

## Off-chain Worker

Is a mechanism for handling non-deterministic operations and is only available outside the
blockchain network, such as calling Rest API function from an outside service.
